Cursor in SQL :
To execute SQL statements, a work area is used by the Oracle engine for its internal processing and 
storing the information. This work area is private to SQL’s operations. 
The ‘Cursor’ is the PL/SQL construct that allows the user to name the work area and access the stored information in it.


Cursor in SQL
To execute SQL statements, a work area is used by the Oracle engine for its internal processing and storing the information. This work area is private
 to SQL’s operations. The ‘Cursor’ is the PL/SQL construct that allows the user to name the work area and access the stored information in it.

Use of Cursor
The major function of a cursor is to retrieve data, one row at a time, from a result set, unlike the SQL commands which operate on all the rows in the result set at one time. Cursors are used when the user needs to update records in a singleton fashion or in a row by row manner, in a database table.
The Data that is stored in the Cursor is called the Active Data Set. Oracle DBMS has another predefined area in the main memory Set, within which the cursors are opened. Hence the size of the cursor is limited by the size of this pre-defined area.


Cursor Actions

Declare Cursor: A cursor is declared by defining the SQL statement that returns a result set.
Open: A Cursor is opened and populated by executing the SQL statement defined by the cursor.
Fetch: When the cursor is opened, rows can be fetched from the cursor one by one or in a block to perform data manipulation.
Close: After data manipulation, close the cursor explicitly.
Deallocate: Finally, delete the cursor definition and release all the system resources associated with the curso


cursor is a pointer to a memory area called context area.
This area is a memory region inside the process global area(pga) assigned 
to hold the information about the processing of a select statement or dml statement.

This area is a memory region inside pga which helps oracle server in processing an
sql statement by holding the important information about that statement. 
 --> rows returned by a query
 --> Number of rows processed by a query
 --> A pointer to the parsed query in the share pool

Using cursor we can control the context area as it is a pointer to the same.

type of cursor :
 --> emplicit Cursor : Automatically created by the oracle server. User can not control the 
                       behavior of these cursors. Oracle server creats an 
                       implicit cursor for any pl/sql blocks which executes and
		       sql statement.
    
 --> explicit cursor: as long as  explicit cursor that not exit fot that 
		       sql statement.
		    -Explicit cursor are user define cursor.
                    -user has full control
 
         steps of creating explicit cursor
		-DECLARE
		-OPEN
		-FETCH
		-CLOSE